## **Assignment No. 1 (Introduction to Composites)**


**Instructions:**

- Attempt all questions.
- The assignment may be *hand-written* or *typed*. But the assignment must be presentable and neat.
- The assignment has to submitted at **[http://gdy.club/CC_YJS](http://gdy.club/CC_YJS)** before due date (i.e. 25.04.2021).
- The submission file will be accepted in pdf format only. (less than 5Mb)
- Copying of Assignment is highly discouraged and may be penalized. It is expected that every individual should thoroughly study the topic and then attempt the Assignment.

----

1. What are composites? Illustrate with a help of an example.
2. List various desired properties that are achievable using composite materials.
3. What are the two main constituents of a composite material? Also, list the function of each constituents.
4. Classify composite materials based on the type of matrix material.
5. Classify composite materials based on the form of reinforcement material.
6. List advantages of composite materials.
7. List disadvantages of composite materials.
8. What is the significance of aspect ratio of the fiber reinforcement.
9. List and compare different types of continuous and discontinuous reinforcement.
10. Illustrate major polymer matrix composite fabrication processes with a help of flow-chart.
11. Differentiate between isotropic, anisotropic and orthotropic materials. Illustrate with the help of diagrams.
12. Differentiate between *a lamina* and *a laminate*. Illustrate with the help of a diagram.
13. Compare the tensile properties of fiber, matrix and a composite with the help of Stress vs Strain plot.
14. Give the expressions for computing longitudinal modulus, longitudinal tensile strength, transverse modulus, Poisson's ratio, shear modulus and density of unidirectional continuous-fiber lamina or laminate.
15. List various advantages of fiber reinforced concrete.
16. Derive the stress-strain relations for anisotropic materials.
17. Derive relationship between engineering constants for orthotropic materials.
18. Discuss the restrictions on elastic constants for isotropic materials and orthotropic materials.
19. List and explain role of different types of fibers in cement composites.
20. Comment on the composition, addition, mixing, placing, finishing and
curing of steel fiber reinforced concrete.

----

*Prof. Yuvraj Singh*
